.TH INGEST 1 "2026-05-03" "ingest 1.0.0" "Ingest Manual"
.SH NAME
ingest \- interactive CLI for ingesting source files into an org-mode LLM wiki
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ingest
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B ingest
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ingest
scans source files under
.B raw/
and
.B subs/
, invokes Claude to extract structured knowledge, and writes it into org-mode wiki category files
.RB ( entities.org ", " concepts.org ", " sources.org ", " analyses.org ).
.PP
The CLI handles git operations (pull, commit, push), lock file tracking, pre-commit validation, and submodule knowledge base independence.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B ingest
Interactive checkbox to select pending files for ingestion.
.TP
.BI "ingest \-\-all"
Ingest all pending files without prompting.
.TP
.BI "ingest " path " [" path "...]"
Ingest specific files directly.
.TP
.B ingest status
Show pending files (new + updated), submodule grouping, and current config.
.TP
.BI "ingest init [" path ]
Scaffold a blank wiki template. Creates category files, ingest-lock.json, ingest.json, raw/, subs/, .gitignore, .gitattributes, and CLAUDE.md. Installs pre-commit hook if target is a git repository.
.TP
.BI "ingest forget " path
Remove a file from the lock, making it pending again for re-ingestion. Wiki pages are not affected.
.TP
.B ingest lint
Validate wiki files for format compliance, link integrity, ID uniqueness, and property drawer balance.
.TP
.B ingest lint \-\-fix
Validate and apply safe deterministic auto-fixes (tag mismatch, broken links with unique title match).
.TP
.BI "ingest query " question
Ask a question against the wiki via Claude in read-only mode. Output is rendered with
.BR glow (1)
in interactive terminals, plain text when piped.
.TP
.BI "ingest export " id " [" options ]
Render a wiki page and its linked neighborhood as one HTML bundle with sticky TOC and SPA navigation.
.TP
.B ingest export \-\-list
List all wiki pages (id, category, title) in TSV format.
.TP
.B ingest man
Show full manual (README) rendered with
.BR glow (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Ingest all pending files without prompting.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Stream Claude output in real-time. Default behavior shows a spinner with elapsed time.
.TP
.BI \-\-depth " N"
BFS hops for export (default 1).
.TP
.B \-\-backlinks
Include reverse links during BFS for export.
.TP
.BI \-\-output " path"
Full output path for exported HTML.
.TP
.BI \-\-output\-root " dir"
Directory for export with auto-generated Denote-style filename.
.TP
.B \-\-open
Open exported HTML in browser after writing.
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Apply safe auto-fixes (used with
.BR lint ).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show short help and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Place
.B ingest.json
at the org root to override defaults:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "model": "sonnet",
  "effort": "medium",
  "allowedTools": ["Read", "Edit", ...],
  "prompt": {
    "systemAppend": "extra instructions",
    "userPrefix": "prefix text"
  }
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
All fields are optional. Missing fields use defaults.
.B ingest init
generates a starter config.
.SH SUPPORTED FILE TYPES
.TP
.B Text
\&.org, .md, .txt \(em direct read
.TP
.B PDF
\&.pdf \(em direct read
.TP
.B Office
\&.doc, .docx, .ppt, .pptx, .xls, .xlsx \(em pre-converted to PDF via LibreOffice
.TP
.B Image
\&.png, .jpg, .jpeg, .webp, .gif \(em direct read via Claude vision
.TP
.B Audio
\&.m4a, .mp3, .wav, .ogg \(em pre-transcribed via Whisper
.SH WIKI STRUCTURE
.PP
Each org root contains four category files. Every top-level heading follows a template with :ID: (YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS), :DATE:, :SOURCES:, and a file-specific tag (:entity:, :concept:, :source:, :analysis:).
.PP
Cross-references use org-id links:
.BR [[id:YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS][Title]] .
Links must be bidirectional.
.SH SUBMODULES
.PP
Git submodules under
.B subs/
are independent knowledge bases with their own category files and raw/. Submodule Claude sessions run in parallel. Commits happen inside each submodule first, then the main repo commits submodule pointer updates.
.SH INGESTION FLOW
.PP
.nf
git pull --ff-only (auto stash/pop)
git submodule update --remote --init
Scan raw/ + subs/ vs ingest-lock.json
Pre-convert: Office -> PDF, audio -> text
Interactive selection (or --all)
Group by submodule
Claude sessions (main sequential, subs parallel)
Write ingest-lock.json (batch)
Commit submodules + push
Commit main repo + push
.fi
.SH ORG ROOT DETECTION
The CLI walks up from the current directory looking for
.BR ingest-lock.json .
Run
.B ingest init
to scaffold a new wiki.
.SH PRE-COMMIT HOOK
Installed via
.BR "ingest init" .
Validates staged category files: tag presence and correctness, :ID: and :DATE: format, link integrity, ID uniqueness, and drawer balance. If a commit is rejected during ingestion, the CLI retries with safe fixes, then an LLM fix pass.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TERM
Used by glow for color output. Defaults to xterm-256color.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ingest-lock.json
Digestion state: maps source file paths to content hashes and timestamps.
.TP
.B ingest.json
CLI configuration (model, effort, allowedTools, prompt fragments).
.TP
.B entities.org, concepts.org, sources.org, analyses.org
Wiki category files maintained by Claude.
.TP
.B .git/hooks/pre-commit
Validation hook installed by
.BR "ingest init" .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (validation failure, Claude error, unknown command).
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted by user (SIGINT).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Node >= 20,
.BR claude (1)
CLI in PATH. Optional:
.BR LibreOffice
(Office conversion),
.BR whisper
(audio transcription),
.BR glow (1)
(rendered output).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1),
.BR glow (1),
.BR whisper (1),
.BR soffice (1)
.SH AUTHORS
zzzhizhi
.SH LICENSE
MIT
